# philosophers
Philosophers - Project at 42 school (42 Wolfsburg)

Philosophers was an interesting project in terms of learning how threads and synchronization work. However, after some time, the project felt like it was holding me back because I was spending more time debugging it. The code design is far from what I wanted it to be but because I was trying to make philosopher sleep in 9 milisecond gaps to give computure more time to process other stuff. 9 milisecond because the project had 10 milisecond tolerance level to detect philosphers death, report and exit it. I implemented my idea and it worked, but the timestamps getting off due to in between function calculations. Then I abondoned the approach to check whether a philosopher has died and whether forks were freed in shorter time intervals (from 9miliseconds to 0.05 miliseconds or 50 microseconds). The code and timestamps depend on other functions. This means that the code is very easy to break by small changes introduced, while if the functions were not interdependent, the code would be more robust to changing and shuffling. The reason I did this is to record times as soon as a function stops, time is recorded before other processes are executed that take time. Also, during evaluations I found that I did not need "forks" mutex and there is a small change needed to be done in thinking loop so that the code exits by destroying all mutexes that were unlocked. However, since I feel I have spent more time than I had to in this project, I will leave the project as they are and will use the lessons learned during this project to my next project :)
